<pre><code>    ____                                               __     _____  __                __              
   / __ \ ____   _____ __  __ ____ ___   ___   ____   / /_   / ___/ / /_ ____ _ _____ / /__ ___   _____
  / / / // __ \ / ___// / / // __ `__ \ / _ \ / __ \ / __/   \__ \ / __// __ `// ___// //_// _ \ / ___/
 / /_/ // /_/ // /__ / /_/ // / / / / //  __// / / // /_    ___/ // /_ / /_/ // /__ / ,<  /  __// /    
/_____/ \____/ \___/ \__,_//_/ /_/ /_/ \___//_/ /_/ \__/   /____/ \__/ \__,_/ \___//_/|_| \___//_/     
                                                                                                       </code></pre>

Use "DocumentCloud":http://documentcloud.org/ to publish PDFs for humans.

h2. Features

* Quickly publish files hosted by DocumentCloud with Google App Engine and serve them on the web for free.
* Collect documents together as projects
* Post an RSS feed and sitemap that promote the latest documents.
* Link similar documents together with blog-style tagging.

h2. Resources

* "Working demonstration":http://document-stacker.appspot.com

h2. Getting Started

h3. *01. Register a new application with Google App Engine*

Go to "https://appengine.google.com/":https://appengine.google.com/. Don't download the SDK. Don't read the docs. Just create an account and mint a new application with a name like _my-document-stacker_. It serves as the unique identifer for your app inside the Google system, and the namespace where it will first appear online (i.e. "http://my-document-stacker.appspot.com/":http://my-document-stacker.appspot.com/).

h3. *02. Install the code on your computer*

It's not required, but I recommend creating a virtual environment to store your application. I like to do this with the Python module "virtualenv":http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv, which creates a walled-off garden for the Python code to work without distraction from the outside world. If you don't have it, you'll need to install it now, which just might be as easy as:

<pre><code>$ pip install virtualenv
# Or maybe ...
$ sudo easy_install install virtualenv
# Or, if you're in Ubuntu ...
$ sudo apt-get install python-virtualenv</code></pre>

Once you have virtualenv installed, make it happen by navigating to wherever you keep your code and firing off the following. I'm going to call this project _my-document-stacker_, but you should substitute whatever you're calling your version.
<pre><code>$ virtualenv --no-site-packages my-document-stacker</code></pre>

Now jump into the directory it creates.
<pre><code>$ cd document-stacker</code></pre>

Activate the private environment with virtualenv's custom command.
<pre><code>$ . bin/activate</code></pre>

Download the latest version of the code repository into a directory called _project_.
<pre><code>$ git clone git://github.com/datadesk/latimes-document-stacker.git project</code></pre>

And jump in and get ready to work.
<pre><code>$ cd project</code></pre>

h3. *03. Set your application id*

In the _project_ folder you will find a file called _app.yaml_. It contains the basic configuration for your Google App Engine site. You only need to make one little change: Replace _my-document-stacker_ with the application id you registered in step one.
<pre><code>application: my-document-stacker</code></pre>

h3. *04. Launch a test version of the site*

You'll want to run this step in a new terminal shell. So open up a new window or tab, navigate to the _project_ directory and fire off the following. It is a "Django management command":http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/django-admin/#runserver-port-or-address-port that will start a test version of the site on your machine.

Note that you'll see me using _python2.5_ throughout, instead of the usual _python_ command. This is because I work in Ubuntu and I've found that Google App Engine "is not compatible with newer versions of Python":http://www.codigomanso.com/en/2010/05/google-app-engine-en-ubuntu-10-4-lucid-lynx/. I suspect is is the case with other operating systems, but I'm not sure. So, I'd recommend using _python2.5_ but, as always, your mileage may vary.

<pre><code>$ python2.5 manage.py runserver</code></pre>

h3. *05. Load an example document*

You'll learn how to add your own documents later, but for now we'll work with an example file: a letter from the USC president advising students against attending raves. Jump back to your first terminal shell and drop the following line, which instructs our _loaddocument_ management command to follow instructions in the _usc-president-warns-about-raves_ configuration and create a new document in the test site we just launched at "http://localhost:8000":http://localhost:8000.
<pre><code>$ python2.5 manage.py loaddocument usc-president-warns-about-raves --host=localhost:8000</code></pre>

h3. *06. Check it out*

If everything clicked, you should see your demo site up and running with the USC document at "http://localhost:8000/":http://localhost:8000/.

h3. *07. Deploy your app*

Once everything's set, deploying your application to Google App Engine only takes a single command. Here it is.
<pre><code>$ python2.5 manage.py update</code></pre>

h3. *08. Load the demo document on your live site*

You'll run the same _loaddocument_ command from step five, but drop the host option. It will post to your live site by default, so it's unnecessary this time around.
<pre><code>$ python2.5 manage.py loaddocument usc-president-warns-about-raves</code></pre>

h3. *09. Check it out*

You should now see your starter site up and running at "http://my-document-stacker.appspot.com":http://my-document-stacker.appspot.com. You might draw errors for a few minutes as the app builds its indexes, but don't worry. It'll be ready after you have a cup of coffee.

h3. *10. Publish you own documents*

Before you can publish your own document, you'll need to learn about our YAML-based configuration system. But don't worry, it's not that hard.









